README.md, before:

# Bosh::CloudFoundry

Create and manage your Cloud Foundry deployments via the BOSH CLI.

## Usage

You can run the following from your local laptop or a server, such as an `bosh-bootstrap` inception server.

```
gem install bosh-cloudfoundry
bosh cf upload release
bosh cf system production
bosh cf dea
bosh cf service postgresql
bosh cf service redis
bosh cf deploy
```

As the Cloud Foundry BOSH release (`cf-release`) is 1.5 Gb, it may be preferable to manage your Cloud Foundry deployments from your inception server, as created/prepared via `bosh-bootstrap`.

```
$ bosh-bootstrap ssh
# gem install bosh-cloudfoundry
# TMPDIR=/var/vcap/store/tmp bosh cf upload release
# bosh cf system production
# bosh cf dea
# bosh cf service postgresql
# bosh cf deploy
```

NOTE: `TMPDIR=/var/vcap/store/tmp` tells the upload process to use the larger mounted volume at `/var/vcap/store`. 

### All available commands

```
$ bosh help cf
cf dea [--count count] [--flavor flavor] 
    Run more applications by changing Droplet Execution Agent (DEA) server configuration 
    --count count   Number of servers for running applications 
    --flavor flavor Flavor of server to use for all DEA servers, e.g. m1.large for AWS 

cf deploy 
    deploy cloudfoundry 

cf service <service_name> [--count count] [--flavor flavor] 
    Support new/more services 
    --count count   Number of servers for service 
    --flavor flavor Flavor of server to use for service 

cf system [<name>] [--ip ip] [--dns dns] [--cf-release name] 
          [--skip-validations] 
    create/set/show current CloudFoundry system 
    --ip ip            Static IP for CloudController/router, e.g. 1.2.3.4 
    --dns dns          Base DNS for CloudFoundry applications, e.g. vcap.me 
    --cf-release name  Name of BOSH release uploaded to target BOSH 
    --skip-validations Skip all validations 

cf upload release [<release_name>] 
    fetch & upload public cloudfoundry release to BOSH 
```

## Development

```
bundle
bundle exec rake spec
bundle exec rake install
```

## Contributing

1. Fork it
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b my-new-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin my-new-feature`)
5. Create new Pull Request

Commit message:

update readme for latest CLI DSL

README.md, after:

# Bosh::CloudFoundry

Create and manage your Cloud Foundry deployments via the BOSH CLI.

## Usage

```
gem install bosh-cloudfoundry
bosh cf create micro demo
bosh cf deploy
```

The above can be run the following from your local laptop or a server, such as an `bosh-bootstrap` inception server. 

The latter is preferred. As the Cloud Foundry BOSH release (`cf-release`) is 1.5 Gb, it may be preferable to manage your Cloud Foundry deployments from your inception server, as created/prepared via `bosh-bootstrap`.

```
$ bosh-bootstrap deploy --latest-stemcell
$ bosh-bootstrap ssh
# now on the inception VM
$ gem install bosh-cloudfoundry
$ export TMPDIR=/var/vcap/store/tmp
$ bosh cf create system production
# prompts for a DNS host for your CloudFoundry, such as mycompany.com
$ bosh cf change deas 1
$ bosh cf add service postgresql 1
$ bosh deploy
```

During `bosh cf create system production`, it will automatically upload the latest release of CloudFoundry (the latest final [BOSH release](http://github.com/cloudfoundry/cf-release)) and the latest stable stemcell (becomes the base AMI for AWS, for example).

NOTE: `export TMPDIR=/var/vcap/store/tmp` tells the upload process to use the larger mounted volume at `/var/vcap/store`. 

You can upload a more recent stemcell or create a new one from source, respectively:

```
$ bosh cf upload stemcell --latest
$ bosh cf upload stemcell --custom
```

You can upload a more recent final BOSH release of CloudFoundry, or create a non-final version from the very latest commits to the CloudFoundry BOSH release, respectively:

```
$ bosh cf upload release
$ bosh cf upload release --edge
```

### All available commands

```
$ bosh help cf
cf dea [--count count] [--flavor flavor] 
    Run more applications by changing Droplet Execution Agent (DEA) server configuration 
    --count count   Number of servers for running applications 
    --flavor flavor Flavor of server to use for all DEA servers, e.g. m1.large for AWS 

cf deploy 
    deploy cloudfoundry 

cf service <service_name> [--count count] [--flavor flavor] 
    Support new/more services 
    --count count   Number of servers for service 
    --flavor flavor Flavor of server to use for service 

cf system [<name>] [--ip ip] [--dns dns] [--cf-release name] 
          [--skip-validations] 
    create/set/show current CloudFoundry system 
    --ip ip            Static IP for CloudController/router, e.g. 1.2.3.4 
    --dns dns          Base DNS for CloudFoundry applications, e.g. vcap.me 
    --cf-release name  Name of BOSH release uploaded to target BOSH 
    --skip-validations Skip all validations 

cf upload release [<release_name>] 
    fetch & upload public cloudfoundry release to BOSH 
```

## Development

```
bundle
bundle exec rake spec
bundle exec rake install
```

## Contributing

1. Fork it
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b my-new-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin my-new-feature`)
5. Create new Pull Request
